## Artifact Repository of Lily Woodard for LIS-590: Products of a Summer Internship With the OADTL

**NOTE: Each of the weekly journal posts can be found in this README.md markdown file. The rest of the quarterly projects (five assignments in total) may be found under the "Assignments" file within this repository. Assignment five contains the products of my work with my host organization, and the other projects relate to my student progress through the quarter.** 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Week One Reflections and Summary: Dated 06/26/2023**

***The following log documents my journey through the UW iSchool's course LIS 590A: Directed Fieldwork, instructed by Helene Williams. This course requires students to find a host site (person or organization) willing to provide training in exchange for student contribution towards larger projects or goals. In my own case, I have connected with Drs. Tom Phillips and Ann Hidalgo of the Open Access Digital Theological Library. This summer, I will create and publish digital collections in the DTL using the Online Computer Library Center. More than anything, I am looking forward to creating something tangible that I could show to future employers as evidence of competency and vested interest in digital curation, as I anticipate a career in similar fields. My experience with computer technology is slightly more limited than my peers, so this internship should also help to mend any gaps in my knowledge of back-end website maintenance.***

***My first week of Summer Quarter 2023 was somewhat less eventful than I had expected, something which did cause me a little anxiety, because I have some small doubts that I will not be able to perform the tasks required of me. The site supervisor with whom I had an email conversation, Tom, was absent on vacation and I was in the dark for much of the week. However, I contacted another member of my course, Victoria, and she gave me the email contact of Ann Hidalgo. This morning (6/26/2023) at 9:30 PST, Ann met with Victoria and me over Zoom to teach us the ropes of the OCLC, and how to select and transfer titles from OCLC to the DTL.***

***We began with Ann making an account for each of us through the OCLC and using them to enter the website’s “metadata” tab. Then, Ann continued by searching the OCLC for “free to read” titles, deselecting all “selected titles” and choosing a keyword for which to narrow the results. Each result has an Internet Archive link reading “website” next to it in the OCLC search results, but each selected result must be tested to prove that the link is not expired. By checking that chosen titles’ names and dates matched between the Internet Archive web posting and the OCLC/WorldCat search result, Ann showed us we could prove that a source is authentic and usable. Finally, Ann taught Victoria and me to use the provided OCLC number identifier to search for and open a record in the Digital Theological Library catalog, and select the DTL’s “my library” check box in order to secure the title within their database.***

***After the Zoom call, Ann suggested that our next week’s step would be choosing a topic we may use to thematically frame or center our products. There’s a slight trade-off between granularity and relevance, as broader topics have more results and greater breadth of subject than the finer topics. I have yet to choose my topic, but many possibilities are bouncing in my mind. Next week’s log should have my decisions fixed, which is exciting.***

***This week, I have been at times nervous, relaxed, left in silence, and overwhelmed with knowledge. As my progress plan stabilizes over the next few weeks, there will be less excitement but clearer vision and a greater sense of accomplishment. I can feel that good things are coming, and this GitHub page will continue to develop alongside my knowledge and experience in digital curation.***

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Week Two Reflections and Summary: Dated 07/03/2023**

***This will be a short post, mainly because my second week has been calm and free of turbulence. After learning the steps that Ann showed to me in the Zoom meeting mentioned in last week's diary, I set off adding solo records to the Digital Theological Library using WorldCat's OCLC numbers and comparing selected texts to their counterparts in the Internet Archive's free-to-read e-book section. On Friday following the Fourth of July, Victoria and I met with Ann one more time to hammer out our techinical errors and gain more experience with the OADTL and WorldCat's Metadata profile.***

***From there, I searched for singular records in the area of religious studies, cross-referenced their details and added them into the OADTL's collections. Of course, I noticed pretty quickly that many of the common themes of religious studies had already been etensively picked through and added. That left either veering into obscure topics, or adding titles with questionable relevance. After struggling for a while, I found that terms like "date palm", "pogroms", and "metallurgy" yielded results I was happy to add to the collection. My thinking about religious studies and the way it draws together seemingly disparate and irreconcilable discipines has deepened my respect for the field. My persistence with the DTL's system from the back-end has increased my comfort with the process. Ann says that this is an important step before progressing to creating and managing thematic collections, or pulling records in from other repositories around the world.***

***At this point in the quarter, my fears of technological inadequacy are quelled by a familiarity with the system. However, the question of what my personal collections will be centered around remains. With a focus on the iSchool's values of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, I am hoping to involve Disability Studies where possible. It's up to me to begin research into which avenues of DS I plan to incorporate with religious studies, and what kinds of keywords will bring me the results I desire.***

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**Week Three Reflections and Summary: Dated 07/10/2023**

***This morning at 9:30am over Zoom, Ann met virtually from the East Coast with our little OADTL intern team in Washington (Victoria Rincon and myself) to begin instruction on publishing unique and personalized collections in the DTL wesbite from the back-end. This differs from our previous work of adding singular titles, and allows for our efforts to be recognized and centrered around a theme or concept. Of course, everything still needs to be focused on religious studies, but the brush we paint with may be broad, as it's hard to say which titles will be relevant to whom in the future. At the moment, we are working with dedicated external libraries to pull titles that are not present in the DTL, yet have an OCLC number, and add them to the OADTL in a specific area using the Collection Manager on WorldCat. I couldn't be more excited to take the first steps in publishing a real online library!***

***From the beginning, Ann emphasized that what the DTL needs is biligual researchers who can expand their language base. Speaking Swedish and Spanish myself, Ann created a collection for me to begin fleshing out which relates to the UNAM (National Autonomous University of Mexico) Repositorio Institucional, focused solely on their open access theses and dissertations of religious studies. It's easier for her to create the collections at this time, she says, as there are several settings to deactivate such as MARC Record Delivery. So at this time, I can't choose the area of my study as carefully, but I am experiencing a trial run in publishing collections to which I can add my name in the "Collection Note" section.***

***My biggest concern moving away from this meeting, and heading into this new process of adding titles (creating titles using OCLC numbers to pre-fill information), is the lack of OCLC numbers attached to UNAM's records. I search for what feels like ages, and the content is right on target for what I want to select, but the records which are connectable to the OADTL through WorldCat using the OCLC number system are frustratingly few and far between. Perhaps there's something about my keyword searching which is just too broad, but I was unable to find a single record in UNAM's Institutional Repository which was trasnferrable to the DTL in half an hour. Ann told me to email her the following evening if I was still stuck, and that I just may do...***

***On the whole, things are ramping up in a way that I'm comfortable with, but excited for. There's always that interim aproaching the next step where everything feels so much more permanent and serious than it truly is, and that fear can be a little paralyzing. But, I remind myself that experience takes time, and both will make me feel more adjusted with exposure to the DTL's computer system. I am grateful for the experience I am permitted through this internship and can't wait to begin adding my own touches.***


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
